content/about.md, before:

---
title: Curiosity
---


# About

Curiosity is an ever-evolving prototype system to think, discuss, and
communicate the future of Smart Coop's developments. It is exposed to
end-users as a web application and a running instance of Curiosity is made
available at [`smartcoop.sh`](//smartcoop.sh) for demonstration purpose. For
tech savvy users, the complete system is packaged as a [virtual machine
image](/documentation/machine), made to be easily run and explored.

## Experimental

Curiosity is being developed to inform further developments, and is not
intended to be a production system. It will evolve during the next few months
as we try to nail down as precisely as possible what the best solutions for
Smart Coop are.

## Open source

Curiosity is an open source project distributed under a 2-clause BSD license.
It is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/hypered/curiosity).

## Documented

To achieve our goals in making Curiosity a central place to inform future
developments, the complete documentation is part of the virtual machine image.
The documentation is comprised of HTML pages, visible at
[`smartcoop.sh`](//smartcoop.sh/documentation), and [man
pages](/documentation/man-pages), available from the terminal within the
virtual machine.

Commit message:

Add notes about `cty run` scenarios.

content/about.md, after:

---
title: Curiosity
---


# About

Curiosity is an ever-evolving prototype system to think, discuss, and
communicate the future of Smart Coop's developments. It is exposed to
end-users as a web application and a running instance of Curiosity is made
available at [`smartcoop.sh`](//smartcoop.sh) for demonstration purpose. For
tech savvy users, the complete system is packaged as a [virtual machine
image](/documentation/machine), made to be easily run and explored.

## Documented

To achieve our goals in making Curiosity a central place to inform future
developments, the complete documentation is part of the virtual machine image.
The documentation is comprised of HTML pages, visible at
[`smartcoop.sh`](//smartcoop.sh/documentation), and [man
pages](/documentation/man-pages), available from the terminal within the
virtual machine.

The documentation part of the Curiosity project is its main goal. The running
prototype is written and used to help us make the documentation accurate and
live; i.e. the documentation reflects the code without reformulating manually
its behavior, but actually runs it or directly queries it.

In particular, business features are demonstrated through [executable
scenarios](/documentation/scenarios).

## Experimental

Curiosity is being developed to inform further developments, and is not
intended to be a production system. It will evolve during the next few months
as we try to nail down as precisely as possible what the best solutions for
Smart Coop are.

## Open source

Curiosity is an open source project distributed under a 2-clause BSD license.
It is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/hypered/curiosity).
